---
title: Workato connectors - Amazon S3
date: 2017-02-16 06:15:00 Z
---

# Amazon S3
[Amazon S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/) is a web service offered by Amazon Web Services, that provides scalable and highly flexible cloud storage through web services interfaces.

## API version
The S3 connector uses [Amazon S3 REST API, version 2006-03-01](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/Welcome.html).

## How to connect to Amazon S3 on Workato
The S3 connector uses the [AWS Signature Version 4](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/sig-v4-authenticating-requests.html) to authenticate to Amazon S3.

There are 2 ways to connect to Amazon S3: 1) Using Access Key; and 2) Using IAM role.

### Connect to Amazon S3 using Access Key
To use this authentication method, you need to provide the access key (including access key ID and access secret key) of an user in your S3 system.

Best practices for creating an integration user with the correct set of permissions can be found in the [Amazon documentation on creating an IAM user](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_users_create.html).

### Connect to Amazon S3 using IAM role
To use this authentication method, you need to provide an IAM role that Workato can use to access your S3 system. You do not need to provide your own access key.

Depend on your use case, you need to give the IAM role proper permission for Workato to run automation on your S3. Ideally, Workato should have List/Read/Write permission to specific buckets and folders.

Learn more about IAM role and granting access to third-party in the [Amazon documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_create_for-user.html).

## Working with the S3 connector

### S3 Terminology
The [terminology](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/gsg/AmazonS3Basics.html) for common S3 data can be found below.

- **Buckets**

Buckets are containers that hold objects. The geographical region where this bucket and its contents will be stored can be defined by the user.

- **Objects**

An object consists of a file, and optionally any metadata describing that file.

### Using the new file trigger
The new file trigger listens to new files uploaded into a specific S3 bucket. The trigger event contains only metadata about the file, however, such as file name and size. To retreieve content of the file, use the **Download file** action.

## Troubleshooting

### Exact, case sensitive names
When defining bucket and object by names in S3, take note that names should be exact and are case sensitive.
